# Schema-Tool
Write, read, format, and save advanced schema (structure data) for websites and SEO

The program can create a form (schemaType function) to make one or more types of Schema. The form can be filled out with as much or as little data as desired and the schema code will be created simultaneously when in write mode. Alternatively, the user can use read mode to post a written schema code or template into the program and generate an editable form from it.

Schema code in the text area can have unecessary whitespace removed using Minify mode, be made readable using Beautify mode, and copied. These functions can be used on code that the program creates or other schema code that is added to the text area. The beautify and minify functions will work on multiple scripts at once, however only one script can be read at a time.

The PHP version of the program includes a database that stores data to use in the schema, and citations can be added to this data in either of two tables (about and mentions). I use XAMPP and myPhpAdmin to test the file, and I have added some data to about and mentions tables in my database. 

The database can be searched for data to add for the schema (about search PHP file), but search can only be used on schema types that can include the type of data that will be searched for. They are used for any CreativeWork schema type (article, webpage, website, image, video, etc). The program is now able to search for data in the database using multiple keywords at once in a keyword phrase and return the results for each without duplicating anything.

The program checks the number of parentheses, brackets, braces, quotation marks, and commas in the code to try to catch any syntax errors. It can also check if a schema that is being read has an invalid property, an invalid type name for an entity, or has an entity value for a property that cannot be an entity. it can replace invalid entity type names with "Thing" by default and fills in as much data as it can. It also can check certain property types for correct formatting and alerts the user if the formatting was incorrect. In the future, it would be helpful to be able to validate the code by checking that all required properties for schema types have data included.

The program also now has a template mode, which is an alternative to read and write modes. This mode will take any schema that is pasted into the text area and first reads it to generate a form from it, then removes the data from the form. It keeps this data as placeholders in the form fields and hilights the fields that had data. This way a user can easily make a new schema based off of an existing schema structure. You can add the text from the placeholder back into the fields easily by clicking the fields and then clicking away. Some schema templates have been loaded into the database as well. The schema template library can be accessed when a user selects one schema type from the list on the main page. The name of each template for that entity type will appear in a list next to the template button. When the user selects one of these names, they can click the template button load up the template and use it.

The user interface has also been made more user friendly by color-coding each different entity type in the form.

Two pages have been included besides the main schema page for tasks that involve the database. The keywords page allows the user to add a list of entities to the database, or to create their own new entities and save them. A user can paste a code snippet of entities (an array of "Thing" entities with or without the opening and closing brackets), choose a related keyword or keyword phrase to list them under, and a database (about or mentions) to store them in. Alternatively, they can type a keyword name, wikipedia link, google link, and related keyword into either the about or mentions fields and click add to create and save a single entity. The program will not save duplicates of keywords in the about database. It will save duplicates of keywords in the mentions database, but only if a unique related keyword is given.

The templates page allows the user to save or open schema templates using the database. A user can paste a schema snippet and its type will be read automatically. If the schema has multiple types, the first type listed will be chosen by default (the user can select a different type instead if preferred, and both types will still appear when the user loads the template from the database again). The user can then give the schema snippet a name and save the snippet. Both the name and the schema snippet must be unique, or the snippet will not be saved. Alternatively, the user can select a schema type and the names of every schema snippet in the database under that schema type will appear in a list. The user can select one and open it. The snippet will be shown in the text field without its script tags, but when the user clicks copy the tags will be included on the clipboard. 

The code for this program is currently in a private repository, but the tool and some schema templates will be publicly available soon!
